In the last lecture we said our project up and we created our dummy project on firebase so that we have
a back and to work with.
Now with that let's go back to our app and let's make some HTP requests.
Now while technically not required I will treat a separate service for this.
Now note you can send these requests from any place in your app but typically you do have some servers
which centralizes this task but you don't have to own name servers servers servers since it is responsible
for most servers.
Of course they give us any name you like and as you learn in the service section daises class server
service like this and does class doesn't need any decorator though.
Here it will.
It will need the injectable decorator because as you learned this decorator is required if you plan
on injecting a service into a service.
And we will check the service into this service the built in angular HTP service which gives us some
methods we need for sending requests make sure to import injectable from angular CT and with tests we
can inject deep angular HTP service.
So you do this by adding a property give it any name you like like h to d p and to type is HTP and HSDPA
and I'm going to write out the full import here needs to be imported from at angular HTP.
So make sure to add this import to get access to the bolt in HTP service which enables you to send requests
well and then in there in our service after injecting this all add a method which I'll simply name store
servers any name you like of course and in there I want to reach out where I want to send such a request
and reach out to my server to store my service there.
So I want to reach out to my back and I should say to store my servers.
So I definitely need to get the service here.
This will be an array of service and you could be more precise about the type.
I'll just say any here and then you could use the HTP object we injected and there we get a couple of
methods each method resembling HTP word and fittingly each method name describes which kind of request
will be sent.
For example we could send a post request here to post our data to the server.
So to add a dare in firebase this case the word is especially important because with a post request
we will append to any existing elements while a put request would override it.
Of course it depends on your back end on the hooks you provided on your back and on the API endpoints
you provided there which request you should send a post request as probably a request you will often
send to store some data here.
The first argument is to your all to which you want to send the request.
No I already copied just your L in the last lecture.
If you don't have it in your clipboard go to your firebase console make sure to copy this link and then
just add it here as a string.
But we're not done.
A post request of course also needs to get data to send with so the data we want to send with the request
data could be our servers here.
So our array of servers and now you could say we're done and it looks like we are.
But actually angular is using observables behind the scene.
That means that we don't send the request like this.
Instead dispose method of the built in HTP service here will only create an observable.
This server will kind of wraps our configure request but very important it is not sending it yet our
request is not sent yet.
The reason for this is since we use an observable to also then subscribe to it and react to any response
we get back if we have such an observable and we don't subscribe to it as we do now.
We don't subscribe to it at all.
There is no need to send it right.
There is no one there to listen for a response so why would you send that.
And this is indeed what's happening here.
As long as we don't subscribe no requests get sent.
Now we could subscribe here and the stories service method but I want to subscribe in the arbor place
and my up into component where I will call this method.
So there I want to subscribe so I should simply return the observable we're trading here.
Again it's not sending a request yet.
Now to use the service I'll go to my apt module and the providers aere.
I'm going to add my server service and also add the import up here make sure to add it to and with the
data we can go to the app component and there I want to inject it so I'll quickly add a constructor
here constructor and inject my server service servicers like this make sure to of course also at the
import here.
This import service service from the server DOD service file.
With that we can use it here.
Now the goal is to have a button which allows the safety servers so any HMO file I'll quickly add this
button to below the ad server but maybe I'll add two line breaks to have empty line in between.
And then I'll add a button where I say save servers.
Gift as some bootstrap classes to look nice and very importantly give it a click listener where I will
call on Save You can of course give this method any name you like and then should execute on Save method
here.
Now this on Save method here will reach out to the server service and they're called storage servers
and pass my service.
So this service property here to it still no request is getting sent because of what's happening here.
We're calling this function in this service we're passing our servers and this function Derrida's method
returns and observable.
So now we should subscribe here to subscribe Meffert Judus observable and check out this section about
observables after the routing section if this is unclear and there in the SUBSCRIBE call back in the
first argument I should say is to callback which gets executed when ever we receive something some data
and this data will of course be the response.
So here I know that I will get back the response.
So let's simply log it to the console's shall we.
And I will also subscriber at Kohlberg I should say as a second argument to fetch any potential errors
we might get.
So here we will get any error or we could fetch any error.
There's no need to unsubscribe from this observable because since it will only get one response anyways
angular will clear it for us.
Once this response has returned there is one other thing we need to do though.
In the service here on the u r l i need to adjust something since in using firebase here I actually
can specify my own endpoint like data or Jason and the data.
Jason here is important because this simply tells firebase about about you work with the database.
Otherwise you will get a coarse error.
So it is only firebase specific.
There we need to have dot Jason at the end.
The data here of this text is up to you.
This will just be an object which gets created in your database where your data will be stored in.
Now enough talking.
Let's save this.
We should have everything we need.
And one more thing though.
In App Marchal make sure that you import the HTP module and also imported here at the top.
Our Weisse using this HTP service will not be possible now with that all set up let's go to our running
application here.
Let's open up the console so that we can see any potential errors.
And now I want to add safe service and we get a response where it says OK does this looks good.
Let's have a look at our firebase console and they're in the database you should see a new data node
which has some cryptic string a unique ID that can tell you that generated automatically for you which
holds an array of our servers.
So this is working great.
We're saving our data.
We're sending a post request and as we saw setting it up and sending it was quite simple.
It's just important to keep in mind that you use observables and that you should subscribe to resetting
the request